\input texinfo.tex
@c %**start of header
@setfilename mmux-chicken-template.info
@settitle MMUX CHICKEN Template
@c %**end of header

@include version.texi
@include macros.texi

@c page
@c ------------------------------------------------------------
@c Values.
@c ------------------------------------------------------------

@set TITLE                      Template for CHICKEN

@c To be used as @value{PACKAGE} whenever we need to include the full
@c name of this package.
@set PACKAGE                    MMUX CHICKEN Template

@c To be used as @value{PACKAGE} whenever we need to include the
@c nickname of the project: the name that is used to compose the
@c distribution tarball or the web address.
@set PACKAGE_NICKNAME           mmux-chicken-template

@c To be used as @value{AUTHOR} whenever we need to include the list of
@c authors of this document.
@set AUTHOR                     Marco Maggi

@c To be used as @value{AUTHOR_EMAIL} whenever we need to include the
@c email of the *single* author of this document.
@set AUTHOR_EMAIL               @email{marco.maggi-ipsu@@poste.it}

@c To be used as @value{COPYRIGHT_YEARS} whenever we need to include the
@c list of copyright years.
@set COPYRIGHT_YEARS            2019

@set CHICKEN_VERSION            5.0.0

@c ------------------------------------------------------------

@set PackageStem                template

@set PackageAutoconfPrefix      MMUX_CHICKEN_TEMPLATE
@set PackagePkgconfigModule     mmux-chicken-template

@set GithubUrl                  @url{https://github.com/marcomaggi/@value{PACKAGE_NICKNAME}}
@set BitbucketUrl               @url{https://bitbucket.org/marcomaggi/@value{PACKAGE_NICKNAME}}
@set DownloadUrl                @url{https://bitbucket.org/marcomaggi/@value{PACKAGE_NICKNAME}/downloads}
@set DocumentationUrl           @url{https://marcomaggi.github.io/docs/@value{PACKAGE_NICKNAME}.html}

@c page
@c ------------------------------------------------------------
@c Local macros.
@c ------------------------------------------------------------

@macro templateref{NODE, TITLE}
@xref{\NODE\,\TITLE\,\TITLE\,template}
@end macro

@macro template{}
@acronym{TEMPLATE}
@end macro

@c page
@c ------------------------------------------------------------
@c Copyright notice.
@c ------------------------------------------------------------

@copying
This document describes version @value{VERSION} of @value{PACKAGE}, a CHICKEN language library
implementing a template library.

The library supports @posix{} platforms.  This package has been tested with CHICKEN version
@value{CHICKEN_VERSION}.

This package is distributed under the terms of the @gnu{} Lesser General Public License (@lgpl{}).

The latest release can be downloaded from:

@center @value{DownloadUrl}

@noindent
development takes place at:

@center @value{GithubUrl}

@noindent
and as backup at:

@center @value{BitbucketUrl}

@noindent
Copyright @copyright{} @value{COPYRIGHT_YEARS} by @value{AUTHOR} @value{AUTHOR_EMAIL}

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the @gnu{}
Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation; with Invariant Sections being ``@gnu{} Free Documentation License'' and ``@gnu{} Lesser
General Public License'', no Front--Cover Texts, and no Back--Cover Texts.  A copy of the license is
included in the section entitled ``@gnu{} Free Documentation License''.
@end quotation
@end copying

@c page
@c ------------------------------------------------------------
@c Headers.
@c ------------------------------------------------------------

@titlepage
@title @value{TITLE}
@subtitle Revision @value{VERSION}
@author @value{AUTHOR} @value{AUTHOR_EMAIL}
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@c ------------------------------------------------------------

@ifinfo
@dircategory Development
@direntry
* mmux-chicken-template: (mmux-chicken-template).   A template library for CHICKEN.
@end direntry
@end ifinfo

@c ------------------------------------------------------------

@ignore
@syncodeindex tp cp
@syncodeindex vr cp
@syncodeindex fn cp
@end ignore

@c page
@ifnottex
@node Top
@top @value{TITLE}

@insertcopying

@menu
* overview::                    Overview of the package.
* version::                     Version functions.

Appendices

* Package License::             GNU Lesser General Public License.
* Documentation License::       GNU Free Documentation License.
* references::                  Bibliography and references.

Indexes

* concept index::               An entry for each concept.
* function index::              An entry for each function.
* variable index::              An entry for each variable.
* type index::                  An entry for each type.
@end menu
@end ifnottex

@c page
@node overview
@chapter Overview of the package


@cindex @library{mmux template}, library
@cindex Library @library{mmux template}


This document describes version @value{VERSION} of @value{PACKAGE}, a CHICKEN language library
implementing a template library.  CHICKEN is a Scheme-to-C compiler supporting the language features
as defined in the ``Revised^5 Report on Scheme''.

This package supports @posix{} platforms.

The package installs the library @library{mmux template} along with its import library.  To require
the library and import its syntactic bindings in a module we can do:

@example
(declare (unit my-module)
         (emit-import-library my-module))

(require-library (mmux template))

(module (my-module)
    ()
  (import (scheme)
    (mmux template)
    (chicken pretty-print))

  ...

  #| end of module |# )
@end example

@c page
@node version
@chapter Version functions


@value{PACKAGE}'s version number follows the specification of @dfn{Semantic Versioning} version 2.0
as outlined at:

@center @url{https://semver.org/}

@noindent
the following functions are available to inspect the version specification at runtime.


@defun mmux-@value{PackageStem}-package-major-version
Return a fixnum representing the package's major version number.  As example, if the full semantic
version is @samp{1.2.3-devel.0+x86-64}: the major version number is the fixnum @samp{1}.
@end defun


@defun mmux-@value{PackageStem}-package-minor-version
Return a fixnum representing the package's minor version number.  As example, if the full semantic
version is @samp{1.2.3-devel.0+x86-64}: the minor version number is the fixnum @samp{2}.
@end defun


@defun mmux-@value{PackageStem}-package-patch-level
Return a fixnum representing the package's patch level number.  As example, if the full semantic
version is @samp{1.2.3-devel.0+x86-64}: the patch level number is the fixnum @samp{3}.
@end defun


@defun mmux-@value{PackageStem}-package-prerelease-tag
Return a string representing the package's prerelease tag.  As example, if the full semantic version
is @samp{1.2.3-devel.0+x86-64}: the prerelease tag is the string @samp{"devel.0"}.  This string may
be empty.
@end defun


@defun mmux-@value{PackageStem}-package-build-metadata
Return a string representing the package's build metadata.  As example, if the full semantic version
is @samp{1.2.3-devel.0+x86-64}: the build metadata is the string @samp{"x86-64"}.  This string may
be empty.  We need to remember that this specification segment must contain only @ascii{}
alphanumerics and hyphen @samp{[0-9A-Za-z-]}; underscores are @strong{not} allowed.
@end defun


@defun mmux-@value{PackageStem}-package-version
Return a string representing the package's version.  As example, if the full semantic version is
@samp{1.2.3-devel.0+x86-64}: the package version is the string @samp{"1.2.3-devel.0"}, without the
build metadata.
@end defun


@defun mmux-@value{PackageStem}-package-semantic-version
Return a string representing the package's semantic version.  As example, if the full semantic
version is @samp{1.2.3-devel.0+x86-64}: the package version is the string
@samp{"v1.2.3-devel.0+x86-64"}, notice the leading character @samp{v}.
@end defun

@c page
@c ------------------------------------------------------------
@c Appendices.
@c ------------------------------------------------------------

@include lgpl-3.0.texi
@include fdl-1.3.texi

@c page
@node references
@appendix Bibliography and references


The documentation of @value{PACKAGE} is available online:

@center @value{DocumentationUrl}

@noindent
the latest release of this package can be downloaded from:

@center @value{DownloadUrl}

@noindent
development takes place at:

@center @value{GithubUrl}

@noindent
and as backup at:

@center @value{BitbucketUrl}

@noindent
CHICKEN can be downloaded from:

@center @url{http://www.call-cc.org/}

@noindent
the package MMUX CHICKEN Checks is available from:

@center @url{https://github.com/marcomaggi/mmux-chicken-checks/}

@c page
@node concept index
@appendix An entry for each concept

@printindex cp

@node function index
@appendix An entry for each function.

@printindex fn

@node variable index
@appendix An entry for each variable.

@printindex vr

@node type index
@appendix An entry for each type.

@printindex tp

@contents
@bye

@c end of file

